gh-98731: Improvements to the logging documentation (#101618)
python/cpython: Doc/library/logging.rst

can include your own messages integrated with messages from third-party
modules.

Here's a simple example of idiomatic usage: ::

   # myapp.py
   import logging
   import mylib
   logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

   def main():
       logging.basicConfig(filename='myapp.log', level=logging.INFO)
       logger.info('Started')
       mylib.do_something()
       logger.info('Finished')

   if __name__ == '__main__':
       main()

::

   # mylib.py
   import logging
   logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

   def do_something():
       logger.info('Doing something')

If you run *myapp.py*, you should see this in *myapp.log*:

.. code-block:: none

   INFO:__main__:Started
   INFO:mylib:Doing something
   INFO:__main__:Finished

The key features of this idiomatic usage is that the majority of code is simply

> creating a module level logger with ``getLogger``, and using that logger to do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
creating a module level logger with ``getLogger(__name__)``, and using that logger to do
```

Author: Done

any needed logging. This is concise while allowing downstream code fine grained

> control if needed. Logged messages to the module lever logger get forwarded "up"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control if needed. Logged messages to the module-level logger get forwarded up 
```

Author: Done

> the module hierarchy; for this reason this approach is known as hierarchical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to handlers of loggers in higher-level modules, all the way up to the root logger; for this reason, this approach is known as hierarchical
```

Author: Done

logging.

> Then, very specific pieces of code actually perform logger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For logging to be useful, it needs to be 
```

Author: Done

> configuration: setting the level, destinations, potentially changing how specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured: setting the levels and destinations for each logger, potentially changing how specific
```

Author: Done

> modules log, and so on, often based on arguments or configuration. In most cases,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modules log, often based on command-line arguments or application configuration. In most cases,
```

Author: Done

like the one above, only the root logger needs to be so configured, since all the

> module level loggers eventually forward their messages to it. ``basicConfig``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lower level loggers at module level eventually forward their messages to its handlers. :func:`~logging.basicConfig`
```

Author: Done

.. function:: debug(msg, *args, **kwargs)

>    This is a convenience function that calls ``Logger.debug``, using the root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is a convenience function that calls :meth:`~Logger.debug` on the root 
```

Author: Done

>    logger as the Logger. The handling of the arguments is in every way identical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logger. The handling of the arguments is in every way identical 
```

Author: Done

>    to what is described in that function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to what is described in that method.
```

Author: Done

   The only difference is that if the root logger has no handlers, then
   :func:`basicConfig` is called, prior to calling ``debug`` on the root logger.

   For very short scripts or quick demonstrations of ``logging`` facilities, ``debug``

>    and the other module level functions may be convenient. However, most programs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and the other module-level functions may be convenient. However, most programs
```

Author: Done

>    will want to carefully and explicitly control the setup of the root logger, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   will want to carefully and explicitly control the logging configuration, and
```

Author: Done

>    should prefer creating a module-level logger and calling ``Logger.debug`` on it,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   should therefore prefer creating a module-level logger and calling :meth:`Logger.debug` (or other level-specific method) on it,
```

Author: Done

   which have been unwound, following an exception, while searching for
   exception handlers.

   You can specify *stack_info* independently of *exc_info*, e.g. to just show
   how you got to a certain point in your code, even when no exceptions were
   raised. The stack frames are printed following a header line which says:
   This is a convenience function that calls ``Logger.debug``, using the root
   logger as the Logger. The handling of the arguments is in every way identical
   to what is described in that function.

   .. code-block:: none
   The only difference is that if the root logger has no handlers, then
   :func:`basicConfig` is called, prior to calling ``debug`` on the root logger.

       Stack (most recent call last):
   For very short scripts or quick demonstrations of ``logging`` facilities, ``debug``
   and the other module level functions may be convenient. However, most programs
   will want to carefully and explicitly control the setup of the root logger, and
   should prefer creating a module-level logger and calling ``Logger.debug`` on it,
   as described at the beginnning of this documentation.

>    This mimics the ``Traceback (most recent call last):`` which is used when

Reviewer: Why has this section been removed?

Author: I'm not sure I understand. The git diff is a bit all over the place. "This mimics the traceback..." is still present in the new version, in the Logger.debug section. In the logging.debug section, yes, it's gone, as with almost everything else, since it now just references Logger.debug.

>    are the otherwise same as for :func:`debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are otherwise the same as for :func:`debug`.
```

Author: Done

.. function:: error(msg, *args, **kwargs)

   Logs a message with level :const:`ERROR` on the root logger. The arguments and behavior

>    are the otherwise same as for :func:`debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are otherwise the same as for :func:`debug`.
```

Author: Done

.. function:: critical(msg, *args, **kwargs)

   Logs a message with level :const:`CRITICAL` on the root logger. The arguments and behavior

>    are the otherwise same as for :func:`debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are otherwise the same as for :func:`debug`.
```

Author: Done

.. function:: exception(msg, *args, **kwargs)

   Logs a message with level :const:`ERROR` on the root logger. The arguments and behavior

>    are the otherwise same as for :func:`debug`. Exception info is added to the logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are otherwise the same as for :func:`debug`. Exception info is added to the logging
```

Author: Done.

   message. This function should only be called from an exception handler.

.. function:: log(level, msg, *args, **kwargs)

   Logs a message with level *level* on the root logger. The arguments and behavior

>    are the otherwise same as for :func:`debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   are otherwise the same as for :func:`debug`.
```

Author: Done
